---
layout: post
title: Introducing the OME Contributor License Agreement
categories: community
---

OME has grown significantly since our early days. The software is distributed
world-wide, used in production by academic as well commercial entities and the
[GitHub organization](https://github.com/ome/) hosts over 300 repositories. In
addition to the academically funded OME team and its commercial partner
[Glencoe Software Inc.](https://www.glencoesoftware.com/), the project has
benefited from [contributions](https://www.openmicroscopy.org/contributors/)
from several groups and individuals.

To keep supporting this growth and community participation while protecting
the code base, OME is introducing a Contributor License Agreement (CLA). This
is a legal document in which a contributor states that they are entitled to
contribute their work to the project and are willing to have it used in
distributions and derivative works. The CLA also ensures that once a
contributor has provided a contribution, they cannot try to withdraw
permission for its use at a later date. People and companies can therefore use
that software, confident that they will not be asked to stop using pieces of
the code at a later date.

Whenever an external (defined as non-OME or non-Glencoe) contributor wants to
submit a contribution to an OME project, they must first sign a CLA. This
allows the contributor to retain their ownership in the code submitted while
granting OME the necessary legal rights to use and re-license that
contribution. The CLA only needs to be signed once and it covers all OME
projects.

If you are a developer contributing open source components to any OME project,
you should [download and sign the agreement](https://ome-contributing.readthedocs.io/en/latest/cla.html) using
the GitHub identity you use to contribute source code.

We started enforcing CLAs for new contributions to Bio-Formats in May 2021 and
start enforcing it to OMERO. By August 2021, developers will not be able to
make contributions unless they have a valid CLA in place across all components.

If you still have questions, please contact us at
contributors@openmicroscopy.org.
